                             Open Object Rexx

                              Release Notes
                              Version 5.0.0

  Copyright 2005-2018 Rexx Language Association.  All rights reserved.

Note
====
ooRexx 5.0.0 is both an enhancement-release and a bug fixes--release.

Fixed bugs and implemented feature requests opened through the SourceForge
Tracker for the ooRexx project are listed in the CHANGES document.

File List
=========


Linux rpm and deb packages contain the distribution name, version of the
system they were built on, and an indicator of the bitness of the interpreter.
For instance, ooRexx-5.0.0-0.x86_64.ubuntu1604.deb was built on
Ubuntu 16.04 and is a 64 bit interpreter.

All package names contain an indication if the package is built as a 32-bit
or 64-bit binary.  Usually this indicator is x86_32 or x86_64.  For a 32-bit
binary, these indicators are sometimes used: i386, i586, etc..

Pick the package closest to the system you intend to install on.  If the
package is not an exact match and will not install, or the interpreter will
not run because of a conflict with the C / C++ libraries, it may be possible
to get one of the developers to build a package for your system by opening
up a support request in the tracker system.  Note that developer resources
are constrained and this is neither a commitment nor a promise.

Readme.pdf
Installation help and other relevant notes that should be read prior to
installation.

INSTALL
Additional installation help in a text format.

ReleaseNotes
This file.

ReadMe.txt
A copy of this file because SourceForge will display the contents of a
readme file in the file download section.

ooRexx-5.0.0.*
The installation packages for various operating systems.

ooRexx-5.0.0-source.tar.gz
The source code for this version of ooRexx, suitable for building on an
unix-like system.  Includes the configure script.

ooRexx-5.0.0-source.zip
The source code for this version of ooRexx, suitable for building and
packaging on a Windows system.  Includes the PDF documentation files which
are required for the packaging step.


Installation and Configuration
==============================

Prior to Installation:
----------------------

For installation help and other relevant notes, prior to installation,
please read the "ReadMe.pdf" PDF file which is placed with the downloadable
files for this release on SourceForge.

Important: An "upgrade" type of installation is neither tested nor supported
on any platform.  Please completely uninstall a prior version of ooRexx
before installing a new version.  Installing over the top of an existing
installation is likely to produce unpredictable results.

Windows Only Note:
------------------

On Windows only, the installer will detect a previous installation and
launch the uninstalltion program automatically.  The uninstall program will
completely uninstall the previous version of ooRexx and then return control
to the installer.

Warning:  If a previous Windows install exists and is not the same
addressing mode (32 or 64) as the version of ooRexx about to be installed,
there are potential problems when the uninstaller is launched from the
installer automatically.  In this case it is strongly advised that the
uninstallation program be run first to completely uninstall the current
version of ooRexx and then the new installer be run.

A Note on Linux packages:
-------------------------

The generically named rpm packages should install on any modern distribution
that uses RPM as a package manager.  Likewise, the generically named deb
packages will install on any modern debian-based systems.

When it is known that the generic package has problems on a distribution,
the ooRexx team may build an additional package for that specific
distribution.  In which case, the installation package will have the
targeted distribution in its file name.

Please use the generically named rpm and deb packages.  If there is a
problem on your distribution, report it by opening up a Tracker bug.
Depending on resources, the ooRexx team may be able to build a specific
package for that distribution.


Changes in ooRexx 5.0.0
=======================

For the ooRexx 5.0.0 release, changes have been relatively well documented
through the Tracker feature of the ooRexx project on SourceForge.  The
ticket number and the ticket title of each change is recorded in the CHANGES
document.  If more information is desired, look up the tracker item on
SourceForge.

The Bug tracker is located at:

  https://sourceforge.net/p/oorexx/bugs/

The Requests For Enhancement tracker is located at:

  https://sourceforge.net/p/oorexx/feature-requests/

The Documentation Bugs tracker is located at:

  https://sourceforge.net/p/oorexx/documentation/

To search for a single ticket number, in any of the trackers, enter
ticket_num:Number in the search field of the tracker.  For instance to
search for ticket number 200, enter: ticket_num:200

Changes in ooRexx 5.0.0 for Windows Only:
-----------------------------------------

The version of ooDialog distributed in ooRexx 5.0.0 is ooDialog 4.2.3.

Beginning with ooDialog version 4.2.0, released August 2012, both the
ooDialog version number and the installation of ooDialog itself have been
decoupled from the ooRexx interpreter.

Any version of ooDialog from version 4.0.0 to version 4.2.3 can be installed
into an ooRexx 5.0.0 installation.  The ooDialog version installed completely
replaces whatever version of ooDialog is currently installed.

ooDialog versions can be downloaded from SourceForge at:

https://sourceforge.net/projects/oorexx/files/ooDialog/

ooDialog version 4.2.0 was completely rewritten from the original IBM
implementation to take advantage of the powerful new native APIs provided by
ooRexx 4.0.0.  ooDialog 4.2.3 is far more powerful, has many more features,
and is more capable than the orignal ooDialog.

While every effort has been made to ensure that ooDialog 4.2.0 and later is
entirely backwards compatible with the original IBM implementation, there
are a few reports of some small number of existing ooDialog programs that
have problems under ooDialog 4.2.3.

It is the intention of the development team that ooDialog 4.2.3 is backwards
compatible with previous versions of ooDialog.  If an ooDialog programmer or
user discovers a case where this is not so, he or she should open up a bug
report on SourceForge, or at the very least discuss the problem on the
ooRexx Users list.

If the problem can be fixed, it will be.  If it can not be fixed, the reason
for that will be explained.

It is the intent that the version of ooDialog distributed with each new
release of ooRexx be the current officially released version of ooDialog.
If any ooDialog programmer or user is unhappy with the backwards
compatibility of that version of ooDialog, and they do not find the new
features of ooDialog compelling enough, they are advised to install one of
the earlier versions of ooDialog available on SourceForge.
